---
layout: post
title: "Quant Trading 101 - Introduction"
---

The quant trading industry is very mysterious, to the public, to people who are considering joining, and to people who work within it.
I joined the industry by chance, as confused as everyone else; now with some experience, I want to shed some light on the segment of industry 
I work in, and I hope it can be useful to whoever that is reading this.

I did a computer science undergrad at a non-target uni and an ml master's, then I worked as a quant dev for one year at a second tier hedge fund.
I left the hedge fund for a variety of reasons and went through months of recruiting processes at firms listed below (and some more lesser known ones):

<table class="custom-table">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Firm</th>
      <th>Positions</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Citadel Securities</td>
      <td>Quantitative Researcher<br>Quantitative Developer<br>Systematic Trader<br>Software Engineer</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Hudson River Trading</td>
      <td>Algo Developer<br>Core Developer</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Jane Street</td>
      <td>Sofware Engineer</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Headlands Tech</td>
      <td>Research Developer</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Jump Trading</td>
      <td>Quantitative Researcher<br>Quantitative Developer</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Quadrature</td>
      <td>Quantitative Developer</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>XTX Markets</td>
      <td>Trading Analyst</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Point72/Cubist</td>
      <td>Quantitative Developer</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Qube Research & Technologies</td>
      <td>Quantitative Technologist</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Squarepoint Capital</td>
      <td>Quantitative Developer</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

I interviewed with so many firms becuase I kept getting rejected and had to keep interviewing, the reasons for rejections were:

- I sucked
- The team was not a good fit
- The team had no intention of hiring, only interviewing to fish for information

I interviewed with a wide variety of roles because my background is mixed and I had no clue what I wanted to do. 
The whole process was painful and arduous, but I have learnt a lot about the technologies, the industry, and myself.
Suffice to say, if nothing else, I understand the junior recruiting processes and the different roles quite well.

Before we dive into some more useful information, I just want to emphasize that the quant trading industry is vast and what I am about to share is only relevant
to a very narrow segment that can be roughly summarized in three hyphenated words: high-frequency, low-latency, and fully-systematic. Also my experience is limited, 
so take what I say with a massive grain of salt.
