---
layout: post
title: "Quant Trading 101 - HFT/MM/HF/Prop"
---

Many classify quant trading firms into a few categories:

- HFT (high-frequency trading): As the name suggests, these firms make trades at a relatively high frequency. There is no agreed definition of what high-frequency is, but any trading strategies that hold positions for less than a few minutes are high-frequency enough in my opinion.
- MM (market-maker): Market-makers are firms that provide liquidity and facilitate transactions in the market. Basically, when you want to buy, they sell to you; and when you want to sell, they buy from you. \*Depending on context, MM can also mean multi-manager, which we will talk about in the next post.
- HF (hedge fund): These firms trade mostly investors' capital and trading profit is split between the firm and the investors. The firm usually takes between 20% to 40% of the profit generated.
- Prop (proprietary): These firms trade its own capital and have no investors.

HF and prop firms are easy to distinguish. Historically, because prop firms trade their own capital, their asset under management (AUM) are quite small. And as a result, they tend to trade higher-frequency strategies, which means they tend to also be HFTs. Trading frequently incurs high transaction costs, and because the costs is lower on the making side, HFTs also tend to be MMs. Many well-known names like CitSec, Jane Street, Optiver, IMC, HRT are HFT/MM/Prop all-in-one.

On the other hand, HFs tend to trade mid/low-frequency strategies. Because they only take a portion of the profit, it makes more sense for HFs to scale the amount money they can deploy. You tend to be able to deploy a lot more capital into mid/low-frequency strategies. HFs also tend not to compete in high-frequency space because they usually do not have the best trading infra which costs a lot to build.

Fast forward to today, my observation is that these classifications of firms are largely obsolete. Almost every firm I have interviewed with operates under a hybrid model. High-frequency space is getting crowded and most of the HFT firms now have teams working on mid-frequency (or even low-frequency) strategies. Every MM does as much market-taking as market-making. HFs are investing in low-latency/high-frequency teams/infra to improve their execution but also to take a share of the high-frequency profit. Even the HF and prop line is blurred, because many HFs have accumulated the profit over the years in their funds and are operating more like prop firms; and prop firms have issued debt to fuel their expansions so whoever that bought the debt are essentially their investors. Essentially, the quant trading space is getting increasingly competitive, and everyone is trying to squeeze out profit from everywhere.

If you are looking for a role in the space, it really doesn't matter much whether it is an HFT, MM, HF, or Prop. The exact team and your position is much more important. In the next post, I will talk about the platform vs the collaborative model of trading firms, which is more relevant for anyone looking for a role in the space.